README.md, before:

# Rest4i
Discussion on MDCMS product Rest4i

MDCMS has a product called Rest4i.  It allows an efficient way to develop Restful services on the iSeries in a straightforward simple fashion.  If a company has developers that are not up to speed on API's this is a great way to get started.  Once the platform is configured, then most of the effort for each service is around coding.  After configuration the approach is as follows: 

## Actions to take 
If the need is to retrieve data from a table then the following is done.
1- Identify the data needed and what table it comes from.
2- Issue a command (part of the Rest4i product) where you identify the file and the interface.  
3- modify the code for any specific needs. 

## example 
I have supplied an exapmle of working code that is generated by the product.  I have supplied a link to the tutorial guide.  It goes through all the steps and provides multiple scenarios.  In this case just one simple get scenario is supplied. 

link to document:  [Link]https://www.midrangedynamics.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/MDRest4i_12.0_Tutorial_English.pdf

The example I am using comes from the tutorial guide (see link above) starting at page 24 (Get Method Service with Database reads)

### The MDRGENPRD command
This command can be broken down into the following components
1- Where to put the generated source 
2- Type of HTTP request (in this case a Get)
3- Response: Will be results be placed in a DB file, IFS file, or passed back as a prameter.  In this example I force the output to a data area.  
4- Processing type: Is processing based on reading a table (what is chosen here), calling another program, or nothing.  The last screnario would be used if special logic needs to be coded. 
5- Input parameters.  All the needed paramters are listed here.  In this case just one parameter is listed. 

Special note.  I did this on a system that did not have Rest4i installed, so the generated code was a cut and paste. from the tutorial manual.  

### The generated code
In this case

Commit message:

commit new work before 26th

README.md, after:

# Rest4i
Discussion on MDCMS product Rest4i

MDCMS has a product called Rest4i.  It allows an efficient way to develop Restful services on the iSeries in a straightforward simple fashion.  If a company has developers that are not up to speed on API's this is a great way to get started.  Once the platform is configured, then most of the effort for each service is around coding.  After configuration the approach is as follows: 

## Actions to take 
If the need is to retrieve data from a table then the following is done.
1- Identify the data needed and what table it comes from.
2- Issue a command (part of the Rest4i product) where you identify the file and the interface.  
3- modify the code for any specific needs. 

## example 
I have supplied an exapmle of working code that is generated by the product.  I have supplied a link to the tutorial guide.  It goes through all the steps and provides multiple scenarios.  In this case just one simple get scenario is supplied. 

link to document:  [Link]https://www.midrangedynamics.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/MDRest4i_12.0_Tutorial_English.pdf

The example I am using comes from the tutorial guide (see link above) starting at page 24 (Get Method Service with Database reads)

### The MDRGENPRD command
This command can be broken down into the following components
1- Where to put the generated source 
2- Type of HTTP request (in this case a Get)
3- Response: Will be results be placed in a DB file, IFS file, or passed back as a prameter.  In this example I force the output to a data area.  
4- Processing type: Is processing based on reading a table (what is chosen here), calling another program, or nothing.  The last screnario would be used if special logic needs to be coded. 
5- Input parameters.  All the needed paramters are listed here.  In this case just one parameter is listed. 

Special note.  I did this on a system that did not have Rest4i installed, so the generated code was a cut and paste. from the tutorial manual.  

### The generated code
In this case the generated code matches closely to the example in the Tutorial.  To run the code I had to enter two parameters.  I put in two just in case I needed another one.  Not sure how the autogenerator would work on this one.  In my program the first parameter is the search value for the ID field.  

### Components of the code 
Below are some of the highlights 

1-
